---
layout: post
title: Splatoon3, after the Grand Festival
categories: [buzz, games]
---

My relationship with Splatoon3 is like the relationship of Johnny Depp with Annie. In one word, toxic. I love Splatoon as a game, but I hate Splatoon 3 as a sequel. I stop playing it after the mediocre side order DLC came out since I finally gave up any hope to this game, but as I heard about the grand (or final) festival around the corner, I opened the game again, trying to say a proper goodbye. 

Don't get me wrong, this game would be great if it's your first Splatoon. But as a guy who played Splatoon2, I would say devs definitely didn't put their mind on the game (especially on the game play). Laziness is everywhere. Sure the art and music are amazing, but it's a shooter game (or a combat game as some JP pro players said) after all. If the gameplay is disappointing, then the whole game would be a *suger coated rock (ft. Off the Hook)*. And that's exactly what happened. 

Still, it's sad that the final festival is over and I need to say goodbye. I expereinced some most dramatic change in the real life which is also entangled with this squid game. It always surprses me how time flies by. 

I experienced some poor-kids-see-the-life-of-previlieged-kids depression after I finished my one-semester visiting at Columbia University at Covid 2020 . And my mind was scattered and shaded for that summer and Fall, but somehow recovered a little in the winter break, in which I finished the Breath of the Wild and started a new silly game called Splatoon 2. I has never been so obessed with a game before, especially for a shooter game. I got into A+ rank using the Spring semester and would definitley want to climb higher on the ladder. At that time Pro still has MPU and pseudo 2OK was a scary, and I was promisnig about the incoming future at Columbia, as I accepted the offer of Applied Math. 

Then I got busy, and don't really have time for that. I systematically started learning pure math with undergrads and gradually getting more and more confident. It's fulfilling but kind of dull, probably I don't have too much social life then. I worked on some Drosophila brain on silicon stuff during summer, and it was then when I heaerd the news of Splatoon3. 

My life is always off the track (or maybe there is no track at the first place), and I kind of have to live in a hostel for 5 days since I forgot to renew my lease. So I played the preliminary on the 'virtual Drosophila' lab and everything just slay. I still used Pro but with a crab tank this time. And just after the official release, I met with my girlfriend (we are still together now surprise surprise!). But the third semester in Columbia doesn't goes too well, as the trailer of the forzen season release, I realized I fucked up my grad school application. 

Ok I might be exaggerating, since I got in Georgia Tech anyway, and as one of my labmate said, 'It could be worse'. I hate it since it's the only offer I got (yes I was even rejected by Stony Brook wtf), and I hate this feeling. I spent the Spring searching for RAship (should have done earlier) and I was in a stressful and unsettling stage again (sorry my gf). I played Splatoon from 1am to 5am just to escape the anxiety. But just as I was about to land on a RA job, they told me my OPT will soon be expired and I have to accept the offer of Georgia Tech. 

I still play Splatoon after moving to Atlanta, but with decreasing playing time and passion and increasing doubt on devs. After final straw on the camel is the side order. The DLC was released right after I flied back from Istanbul, the hype was real, but soon became disappointment due to its mediocre quality. And I stopped playing this squid game since then. 

Then after a while, a long while, that I heard the news a final splatfest. I played to Big run on the tricolor stage and the vibe of the splafest is just insane. It was like the feast before the parting, everyone vibes so hard to numb themselves, trying to forgot the fact the ending is approaching, just as I played so hard to escape the anxiety. The final concert is lieterally on fire and the special tricolor battle music drew me into the mind flow. The Dualie Squaenlid so fast that no one. We won the last battle and suddenly everythign becomes sielnce and the dawn breaks. Me as a squid standing on the platform, with writing 'thanks for playing, someday sometime'. 

It's been more than 3 years, and I barely believe what happened in my life. The current myself is just so differnet from the one 3 years ago. Such is game and such is life. It's OK to say goodbye and it's ok to go off the track. I might still play it from time to time but won't be so active until Spaltoon 4 came out. But I will make my fucked-up life keep going off the track. 







 



